Although trees are equipped with water scarcity mechanisms, tree responses usually depend on many factors including, for example, soil type, tree density, age, or tree health.

In the case of drought, trees shut off stomata, limiting the transpiration and supporting water retention. if drought appears on a longer horizon, the tree limits photosynthesis, which leads to a slowdown in growth.

More than 80% of the variation in tree growth is caused by water scarcity.

Key signs:

    Withering
        Associated with a decrease of pressure in leaflet mesh
        Withering of leaves appears as sign of shorter dryness in the day and overnight can disappear. In the case of prolonged drought, leaf wrinkling is permanent.
    Change leaf color
        Resulting in brown or yellow leaves or the drying ends whole leaves or their parts
        When it comes to coniferous trees, droughts appear on the two year needles and results in brownin g or redening
    Defoliation
        Partial or complete loss of leaves
        The first is reflected on old leaves and places heavily exposed to sunlight
        Long-term droughts occurring in the order of several years can be observed for the deflation of the crown, especially in the upper parts.
    Bark bettle attacks and other pest attacks
        The health status of drought-affected trees is poor. This makes them more susceptible to pest infestation. Trees are also unable to defend effectively.
        Not applicable to areas with bark beetle

List of observed parameters:

    Tree height
    Trunk diameterDiameter
        Measured at 1.3 m above the ground. For trees (or shrubs) where the branching below begins, the diameter is determined to the point of branching
    Type of tree
    Type of location
    Chemical treatment in the vicinity
        Information about chemical treatment of field crops or other areas in the vicinity of the observed tree.

How to take a photo:

    Photos of the entire tree
    Photos about drought signs